## JPA CRUD Project

## Overview
The purpose of this project was to create a web application that can Create, Read, Update, and Delete(CRUD) information on a database.
My application serves to track "All You Can Eat" Buffet restaurants.
The home/index page has a section where you can search for a buffet by an ID number or create a new buffet entry.
Id numbers are auto-generated by the database when a new Buffet is added. Once you input a number into the text box and press the submit "Show Buffet" button the corresponding buffet will be shown if it exists. Also on this page you are taken to is a button below the searched buffet that will delete the entry in the database. It goes to an error page but the entry will be deleted.

To add an entry, just fill in the fields and click "Add Buffet" button. You will be taken to the show.jsp with your newly added entry.

To update an entry, you'll have to be on the show.jsp after you search for a buffet by id.
Fill in whichever fields you want to edit and click submit button. The page will refresh with your changes applied to the entry.



## Technologies
Spring Tool Suite- It's like eclipse but can handle Spring framework
Spring MVC- makes it easier to build Java web applications.
Provides servelets
Uses an object class annotated with @Controller to handle and map requests from jsp.

JPA- Java Persistence API: a set of concepts that is implemented by Java to outlive the application process. Basically the changes to data on a database linked to Java will "persist" after the java application is run.

SQL- database language

## Lessons Learned
Just google every error you get.

make sure the info in the persistence.xml and appliation.properties is correct like the MYSQL Datasource so it connects to database correctly. Spring handles almost everything else if you annotate the Entity correctly.

That's about it. Couldn't get it to do much else without breaking. I'm still figuring out how ModelAndView object works in coordination with html requests. There's a lot going on that is unseen in how data is moving from database to java to jsp/html page.
